
Overview
--------------------------------------------
* Name: LCD 16X02
* Description: Display the data from an analog input to an LCD 16x02 display HD44780
* Author: Gavin Lyons.
* Complier: xc8 v2.00 compiler
* PIC: PIC16F1619 
* IDE:  MPLAB X v5.00
* Development board: Microchip Curiosity Board, PIC16F1619

Table of contents
---------------------------

  * [Overview](#overview)
  * [Features](#features)

Features
----------------------

Display the value of an analog input (10-bit ADC value(0-1023)) of a PIC pin
on a LCD 16x02. The ADC value is converted to voltage value .
(It assumes vdd  = 5V) which maps 0-1023 to 0-5V ranges.

The 10-bit ADC (0 to 1023) value is read from a pot attached to PIC pin RA4(PORT A)
It is then displayed on the display.
The value is read on a interrupt generated by overflow of timer0 every second.
So display will change once every second.
A status LED on RA2 toggles on same Timer.

In this folder the main source code in C for program can be found in file main.c
The code  generated using the MPLAB Code Configurator (MCC) tool is  
 in folder called mcc_generated_files

MPLAB Code Configurator (MCC) is a free, graphical programming environment that generates ,
C code to be inserted into your project. It is built in to the MPLAB IDE
Using an interface, it enables and configures a rich set of 
peripherals and functions specific to the application.

1. RA4 = Analog data in.
2. RA2 = Status LED.

**74HC595 Shift register**

The LCD is driven using a Shift register 74HC595. 

GPIO PORTC function on PIC, 3 lines to 74HC595

| 74HC595 pin  | Pic 16F1619 pin |
| ------ | ------ |
| SER  14 serial data | RC0 |
| SCLK 11 Storage | RC1 |
| RCLK 12 Latch | RC2 |


**HD44780-based character LCD**

HD44780 based character LCD displays use 14 wire connections: 8 data lines (D0-D7), 3 control lines (RS, E, R/W), and three power lines (Vdd, Vss, Vee). Some LCDs come with backlight features that help reading display data in low illumination conditions. They have two additional connections (LED+ and LED- or A and K).

The control pin R/W determines if the data transfer between the LCD module and an external microcontroller are actual character data or command/status. The enable pin (E) initiates the actual data transfer. When writing to the LCD display, the data is transferred only on the high to low transition of the E pin.

The Vdd pin (2) should be connected to the positive power supply and Vss (1) to ground. Pin 3 (Vee) is for display contrast adjustment.

Pins 7 to 14 are data lines (D0-D7). Data transfer to and from the display can be achieved either in 8-bit or 4-bit mode. The 8-bit mode uses all eight data lines to transfer a byte, whereas, in 4-bit mode, a byte is transferred as two 4-bit nibbles. In the later case, only the upper 4 data lines (D4-D7) are used. This technique is beneficial as this saves some input/output pins of microcontroller. This example uses 4-bit mode.

Schematic
------------------------

![schematic (https://github.com/gavinlyonsrepo/pic_16F1619_projects/blob/master/images/LCD16x02.png)
